# CPT316 Assignment 1 (Group 10)
Members:  
  1. Abdul Qayyum bin Anuar (158085)
  2. Fatin Aqilah binti Zukri (155330)
  3. Huda Nabilah binti Zulkarnain (157634)
  4. Michelle Ling Mya Shuet (157926)
  5. Sofea binti Taufik (159072)

We have used Java for our programming language and we have implemented lexical analysis and syntax analysis in our programming code. It tokenizes source code input, performs lexical analysis and builds Abstract Syntax Tree through parsing. We also have provided our report in PDF and MS-word in our folder. 

# Overview

The 'Lexer.java' file contains the implemenation of a lexer. It tokenizes source code input and performs lexical analysis. The 'Parser.java' file contains the implementation of a parser that builds an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) from tokens generated by the lexer. 

# Guidelines

To use the lexer, please follow these steps below:
  1. Ensure the source code starts and end with curly brackets: '{}'.
  2. Enter the source code when prompted.
  3. If you want to enter the source code again, just type 'yes', and you will be prompted to write another source code again.
  4. If you do not want to enter the source code again, just type 'no', and it will terminate the program.

To use the parser:
  1. Ensure you have already used the lexer to obtain a list of tokens.
  2. Instantiate the 'Parser' class with the list of tokens.
  3. Call the 'parse()' method to build the AST.

# Rules

We have also implemented rules in our coding, which are
  1. Rule 1: Source code must start with '{' and end with '}'.
  2. Rule 2: Source code cannot have illegal characters.
  3. Rule 3: Operators must be used between two identifiers.
  4. Rules 4: Consecutive tokens of the same type (except separators) are not allowed.
  5. Rules 5: Literals/Constants can be only used in assignment and return operations.
  6. Rule 6: Semicolon is required at the end before the closing curly brace '}'.
  7. Rule 7: Curly brackets, parantheses, braces, and brackets must be in pairs.

If any of these rules are violated, you will be prompted to input yes or no if you want to write another source code. 



 

